# Classification
Using classification algorithm to classify edible mushroom

Human has been consuming mushrooms for many centuries. Other than being used as cooking ingredients, mushroom can benefit echo system by decomposing plant residues and animal dropping. Recently mushrooms hunting is gaining popularity worldwide. Mushrooms contain essential nutrients such as proteins, vitamins, minerals, amino acids, antibiotics and antioxidants. It has numerous positive effects on human body and protect cells from damage associated with diseases such as cancer, heart disease and Alzheimer's. There are, however, many species of mushrooms that are not edible and may vary from gastrointestinal illness to hallucination or even liver failure and death.  Therefore, mushroom edibility should be checked prior to consuming. 

The dataset is obtained from UCI Machine Learning site. Mushroom records drawn from The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Mushrooms (1981). G. H. Lincoff (Pres.), New York: Alfred A.Knopf. The Donor: Jeff Schlimmer.
UCI mushroom dataset includes descriptions of hypothetical samples corresponding to 23 species of gilled mushrooms in the Agaricus and Lepiota Family Mushroom drawn from The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Mushrooms (1981). Each species is identified as definitely edible, definitely poisonous, or of unknown edibility and not recommended. This latter class was combined with the poisonous one. The Guide clearly states that there is no simple rule for determining the edibility of a mushroom; no rule like "leaflets three, let it be'' for Poisonous Oak and Ivy. Time period: Donated to UCI ML 27 April 1987

Processing time partially depends on the environment where the algorithm is performed and are not extremely precise. All high and acceptable levels of accuracy were reached for all algorithms. They are able to classify mushroom edibility with high accuracy. According to (Thanh Noi and Kappas, 2017), Random Forest and K-nearest-neighbors classifiers show high overall accuracy with data with sufficient amount of observations. This is understandable for this dataset, which has 5,644 observations  and 21 independent variables after data pre-processing. (Wu et al., 2003) also suggest that the increase of sample size of dataset can return a high overall accuracy. 
\linebreak

Random forest has the highest overall accuracy. Furthermore, Random Forest algorithm took an average of  0.3 seconds to process whereas Naive-Bayes algorithm require only 0.01 seconds and 50 seconds with KNN to perform the same task. The drawbacks of random forest with this specific mushroom dataset is that it contains 22 independent variables and would create many node or split points. In contrast, Naive-Bayes algorithm perform better than other algorithm when there are large number of features. Because Naive-Bayes assumes independence between predictors, it does not need to find correlation between these predictors and  handle exponentially fewer predictor interactions.

Random Forest also outperform Naive-Bayes with unseen variables in testing set. While random forest could make a prediction without handling unseen variables beforehand, Naive-Bayes algorithm return a zero probability.
\linebreak

In the confusion matrices, some metrics such as sensitivity, specificity are the most important .In this scenario, true positive (TP) is the numbers of edible mushroom classified as edible. Specificity is calculated by the following formula: true negative divided by the sum of true negative and false positive. It is required to maximize specificity because edible mushrooms classified as poisonous is not as important as poisonous mushroom classified as edible. 
